The following is a plan that contains elements to include in my Breakout game variation. 
The dimensions for the blocks and the ball and the probabilities for power-up drops 
are not listed here because they will most likely change as the game is developed. 

Worms Breakout Variant:

	I found the Worms Breakout variant interesting because the blocks occasionally dropped 
	power-ups. Some of the power-ups, like the extra ball drop, I plan to utilize in my own 
	variation; however, I didn't like how the power-ups fell down the screen. In my variation
	I plan to leave the power-ups floating in the blocks place. I also liked how the 
	power-ups in the Worms version appear to require the user to press a key to activate. This 
	feature seems to give more control to the user and allows for them to plan when/how to use 
	certain power-ups. 

Game Levels:

	The game will consist of 5 levels, each increasing in difficulty by
		- Decreasing the paddle width 
		- Increasing the ball speed 
		- Changing the block configuration
		
	Each level will have the same block area partitioned into a grid for potential 
	block positions. The possible positions will be read in from a file and then 
	a block has a probability to be placed in a position depending on the level and the block 
	type. This means the same level may not have the same configuration each time because
	a block will not always be generated in the same position. The probability that a block
	will be placed will increase with each level in order to increase the difficulty. In 
	addition, the probability that a more difficult 'special' block is placed increases with 
	each level.   
	
Block Types:

	The game will have 4 block types
		- Standard block: the default block that disappears after one hit.
		- Two-hit block: a block that disappears after two hits.
		- Three-hit block: a block that disappears after three hits.
		- Speed-Boost block: a block that increases the speed of the ball for the duration 
		of the level and disappears after one hit.
							 
	The Speed-Boost block has the smallest probability to be placed and this value remains the 
	same in all levels. The Two-hit and Three-hit blocks are more likely to be placed with each
	increasing level. 
	
	Each block will have the same probability of dropping an ability coin. These coins can 
	be used to activate one paddle ability for a short time period. 
	
	Each block will have the probability of dropping a power-up. Not all power-ups have the same
	probability of dropping.
	
Paddle Abilities:

	The paddle will have 3 possible abilities. Each ability consumes 1 ability coin. 
		- Catch and Throw: When a key is pressed the paddle turns red and the next time it hits the ball
		the ball will stick to it. Pressing the same key again will throw the ball and return the paddle
		to its normal color. Only one ball can be caught at a time.
		- Longer Paddle: When a key is pressed the paddle turns purple and stretches to a longer width.
		After a short time the paddle returns to its normal color and size.   
		- Boost Paddle: When a key is pressed the paddle turns green and moves quicker. After a short 
		time the paddle returns to its normal color and movement speed. 
		
Power-Ups:

	Blocks have the probability of dropping the following power-ups, listed most common to least common
	- Extra ball: Gives the player an extra ball that can be fired from the paddle by pressing a key
	- Extra life: Gives the player an extra life
	- Shadow ball: the ball breaks blocks but does not bounce off of them for a short period. 
	
	Once dropped the power-ups float in the blocks place until the ball hits it, then it is activated.
	
Cheat Keys:

	The cheat keys will be used for game testing and debugging
		- Extra balls: A key to give the player an extra ball
		- Extra life: A key to give the player an extra life
		- Reset key: A key to reset the paddle and balls
		- Round jump: Keys to jump between rounds
		
Extra Addition - Triple Threat:

	If there are more than 3 balls in play at a time, every ball gets a small speed boost 
	and the balls all begin to change colors as they move.  
		 